= Frequently Asked Questions =

== 0. What is VNC? ==

  VNC is an open, more-or-less standard protocol for controlling computers
  (display, mouse and keyboard) from other computers over a network.  It
  is most useful if you have a computer that's always on (a server)
  that you want to control from its ordinary desktop interface.  We
  can't explain everything about VNC here.  If you want to use *android-vnc-viewer*, it's best to first set up so you can control
  your server from another PC client; then you'll know how you need
  to configure the phone as a client.  Please refer to the following
  instructions (these aren't ours):

  * For PC's: [http://www.tightvnc.com/winst.html TightVNC setup]
  * For Mac's: [http://www.macminicolo.net/Mac_VNC_tutor.html Apple remote desktop sharing]

== 1. Should I install from this site or Android Market? ==

  Android Market will have the latest version of the code
  we consider stable.
  You should always be able to upgrade the version in Market without
  losing your settings.  If you want to help get the bugs
  out and to have the very latest bleeding edge version, download
  development versions from here in Google Code.  We'll try
  and allow upgrades with the development version, but you may have
  to uninstall from version to version, losing your settings.
  When switching from the
  development version to the market version (or back) you will
  always have to Uninstall.

== 2. It says the installation failed, and now I can't even access the old version! ==

  It is safest to Uninstall the android-vnc-viewer before installing
  a new development version.  Upgrade installations may not work.  An
  upgrade installation that fails will leave you unable to run the old
  version or install a new one-- We've found that if you re-install the
  old version you had, you can then uninstall it properly and then
  install the new version.  You may need to reboot your phone before
  you can do the reinstall.

== 3. I can't log in to Real VNC Enterprise ==

  Real VNC Enterprise can use a proprietary encryption protocol over the
  standard VNC protocol.  Android VNC (and as far as I know, all other
  non-RealVNC clients) can't use this protocol.  The work-around is to
  configure the Real VNC server to use None or VNC authorization
  instead of Windows authorization; then it will use the standard
  and open protocol; you should use SSH or a VPN as an alternative
  source of encryption.  Other than that, you can politely ask
  RealVNC to supply an Android version of their client :)

== 4. I can't see the mouse cursor! ==

  Some VNC servers require the client to render the mouse cursor.  VNC can render a simple cursor in these cases; on the connection configuration screen, select "Local mouse pointer".

== 5. I'm having trouble with connecting to Apple Remote Desktop on OS/X. ==

  I don't have a Mac to test with, but *android-vnc-viewer*
  does connect to Apple Remote Desktop on OS/X.  The default color
  depth (64-colors) does not work, so you will have to configure
  for 24-bit color before you connect (I'm not sure if 256 colors works).

  You will also need to turn on "Local mouse pointer".

== 6. How do I right click, or send special keys? ==

  See the [Documentation User Manual].
  Hold down the camera button while clicking to
  do a right-click.
  Support for sending just about any special, Ctrl or Alt
  key is available from the *[Documentation#Special_Keys Send Keys]* menu item.  You can also use this to send mouse clicks that are difficult to send directly, like middle-button clicks or right clicks when your phone doesn't have a camera button.
  Ctrl-Alt-Del is available as its own
  menu function.

== 7. It doesn't work with my repeater ==

  We hope to have support for the UltraVNC repeater soon.

== 8. How do I connect to VNC from 3G without opening an insecure port to the internet? ==

  We recommend you tunnel your VNC connection over SSH with
  [http://code.google.com/p/connectbot connectbot].  Set up
  your connectbot connection to the server hosting your
  VNC server, and configure a tunnel to forward port 5900.
  Then you can set up an android-vnc-viewer connection to
  5900 on localhost.

== 9. Why can't I connect? ==

  There are a number of reasons a connection to your
  VNC server might fail.

    * You are using an unsupported authorization protocol (see [#3. I can't log in to Real VNC Enterprise]).

	* Your phone can't connect to the address you specified for the connection.  Try connecting to another service (i.e. ssh) at that address to verify connectivity.  Remember that connectivity might be different if you are accessing the server through you carrier's network rather than over a local Wi-Fi network.

	* Your password might be entered wrong.

	* Your VNC server might not support the color depth you requested.  Try a different color depth (24-bit).

	* Your phone might be running out of memory RAM.  If *Force full-screen bitmap* is selected, de-select it.

	* We've noticed that sometimes connections just seems to fail for a few minutes after you diconnect; we're not sure why.  Sometimes just waiting will make your server available again.

  If none of these suggestions work, you might have run into a bug in android-vnc-viewer.  Look at the submitted issues to see
  if someone has encountered a similar problem.
  You can help the project by submitting a bug report.
  If you have access to the Android SDK, you might want
  to include LogCat output from the time
  you attempted your connection in your bug report.
  
  In future versions of the code we'll try to be more specific in
  the error messages about what's gone wrong.

== 10. My phone doesn't have buttons that Android VNC expects!  What do I do? ==
  You can use the [Documentation#Special_Keys Send Keys] menu item to send just about any keystroke or mouse click that you want.  It might not be convenient, but it will get the job done.

  We are adding a new menu item for phones that lack physical keyboards that will provide a text box where you can bring up the soft keyboard, type some text, and then have that text sent to the phone.  This should support all the keys on the soft keyboard, including the Enter key, and will work with phones where you can't pull up the keyboard with a long press on Menu.  This is currently available only in the development version.

  If you have a phone with other needs that Android VNC doesn't cover, please submit (or add to an existing) bug report on the issues page.
